---
layout: post
title:      "I thought this was a dev blog?"
date:       2020-04-05 10:59:41 -0400
permalink:  i_thought_this_was_a_dev_blog
---

Not today it isn't. My apologies.

In my defence, I had a blog post all planned. Pre-coronavirus, I was going to talk about all the hectic transitions going on in my life. How I lost track of everything for a while. See, before the rest of the world turned upside down, my own life got a bit topsy turvy. I got married, then had a whole visa process to deal with, and moved to another country. I already spent a lot of time in England, so luckily being here hasn’t been as much of a shock as it could have been, but that only counts for so much. All told, the last few months of 2019 were just a blur for me.

I can, of course, still tell you what I was going to tell you. Through it all I tried to stick to some sort of routine; I woke up and went to bed at the same time every day, did yoga, meditated, journaled. I also did a lot of learning. I kept on with my computer science learning, kept working on algorithms. Once I got to England, I had to reassess my skill set, and decide what frameworks and languages I should focus on here. I got into Node and Express, and started learning C#. Basically, this whole paragraph was going to be greatly expanded.

I have to be honest, though. I’m not sure that’s the blog post anyone needs right now. If you have the time and the capacity, I’m pretty sure you’ve gotten the memo about keeping a routine through lockdown, about learning a new skill and turning inward. People are offering all sorts of discounts and online learning resources are seeing a surge. We know this.

What I’ve learned about myself in lockdown, however, is that I’m really, really bad at grieving. I haven’t seen my family in months, and they were supposed to visit this coming week. For my birthday. My 30th birthday. I’ve never been apart from my mother for very long, never more than a month until last year, when I came to England for a 3-month long visit. Now, here I am, living an ocean away, and I don’t get to know when I’ll see her next. Of course, I can thank my lucky stars that this pandemic is happening in this moment, with WhatsApp and Skype, and we can connect in so many ways.

But, honestly, that’s not what this post is about. I don’t want to talk about how lucky we all are, because I think we know. If you’re not keeping track of what you can be grateful for every day, you certainly should, it helps. That’s not what I’m going to talk about, though. That’s not what I want to share. What I want to share is this: This sucks! I’m turning 30 without a huge chunk of my family, without my mom, and without my friends. It will be me and my wife, in our flat alone (I'm sure there will be Skype calls as well), doing our best to put together a celebration. For her part, my mother has outlawed the entire thing, and I am not to turn 30 until she arrives, which I really can’t disagree with.

This sucks, and I only cried about it 5 minutes ago, and only for a moment. I found myself reminded of when my grandfather died. He was the closest thing I ever had to a father, and I went to school the next day. It didn’t even occur to me to sit with it for a day. I am really good at pushing through things, at ignoring grief. I’m good at focusing on what I should be grateful for. I’m good at telling myself that at least we have Skype, at least I’m with my wife. I’m good at waking up at the same time every day and meditating. I’m good at doing yoga every day at the same time. That doesn’t mean I’m dealing with anything, or doing well. My pain is worse from tension, my nervous habits like skin picking are worse and taking their toll, and my sleep is a disaster. I simply cannot advocate anyone else carry on in this manner.

So, dear reader, when you read another post about how to push through, how you should be honing in on every silver lining, feel free to listen and do your best to keep on keeping on. Or, alternatively, feel free to (internally, don’t be rude) tell the author to stuff it and just grieve. Cry, miss your friends and family, miss the year you were supposed to have. I know some of us are just bored, bored and scared at the same time. Tense, yet tired. Grateful, and grieving. We can be all of the above, folks. None of us have ever been through this before, and whatever you’re feeling isn’t good or bad, it isn’t inappropriate. Just go ahead and feel it. Cry, scream into a pillow, have a glass of wine a bit early in the day, take a nap. Your gratitude journal will still be there when you’re done, I promise.
